hi my name is dr. Cassie root and I'm an
orthopedic
fort worth of pedic Center I specialize
in the hand and upper extremity taking
care of problems anywhere from the elbow
through the fingertips i am from the
Northern Virginia area and grew up in
Fairfax Virginia and went to Thomas
Jefferson High School I did my medical
school training at Vanderbilt University
and then went to New York for my
orthopedic surgery residency at the
hospital for special surgery I follow
that with a year of hand and
microvascular surgery in st. Louis at
the Washington University people often
ask me why I went into hand surgery hand
surgery really appealed to me for a
variety of reasons I'm a very very
detail-oriented person and i love the
fine delicate anatomy of the hand and
upper extremity I like being able to
focus on one very intricate part of the
body and yet take care of a wide variety
of problems in any given day I have the
opportunity to fix broken bones repair
torn tendons treat overuse injuries and
arthritis remove tumors from the hand or
wrist and treat nerve problems such as
carpal tunnel syndrome I see patients of
all age groups from infants to the
elderly I will go from a room seeing a
two-year-old to seeing a 100 year old
and everywhere in between I really love
my job because I love my interaction
with patients I try to meet each patient
where he or she is and determine what is
important to that individual patient and
then develop a plan of how to accomplish
his or her goals this is not the same
for everyone and it is one of the
challenges to try to determine the best
course for each individual it is not
just about the diagnosis but about doing
everything I can to make it better
whether that involves therapy injections
medication and only after all of that is
exhausted surgery my goal is to help
people to use their hands and arms in a
functional pain-free way to allow them
to do their job take care of their
children play sports or enjoy their
hobbies it's one of the main things that
got me into the field of orthopedics
it's about restoring function and
quality of life getting patients back to
work or back to the things they really
love to do